Waterfall Model
The classical waterfall model is the basic software development life cycle model. It is very simple but idealistic.
Earlier this model was very popular but nowadays it is not used. But it is very important because all the other
software development life cycle models are based on the classical waterfall model.

The classical waterfall model divides the life cycle into a set of phases. This model considers that one phase can
be started after the completion of the previous phase. That is the output of one phase will be the input to the next
phase. Thus the development process can be considered as a sequential flow in the waterfall. Here the phases do
not overlap with each other.

The main difficulties included handling change requests from customers during project development and the high cost
and time required to incorporate these changes. To overcome these drawbacks of Waterfall model, in the mid-1990s
the Agile Software Development model was proposed.

Agile Model
The Agile model was primarily designed to help a project to adapt to change requests quickly. So, the main aim of the
Agile model is to facilitate quick project completion.

In the Agile model, the requirements are decomposed into many small parts that can be incrementally developed.
The Agile model adopts Iterative development. Each incremental part is developed over an iteration. Each iteration
is intended to be small and easily manageable and can be completed within a couple of weeks only.

Scrum Framework
Scrum is the type of Agile framework.

Sprint:
A Sprint is a time period of one month or less. A new Sprint starts immediately after the completion of the previous Sprint.

Release:
When the product is completed then it goes to the Release stage.

Sprint Review:
The sprint review is one of the most important ceremonies in Scrum where the team gathers to review completed work
and determine whether additional changes are needed.
Spring Retrospective:
The sprint retrospective is a recurring meeting dedicated to discussing what went well and what can be improved in a sprint.
Product Backlog:
Product backlog contains all the requirements and features that are required for a product.
Sprint Backlog:
Sprint Backlog categorizes which action needs to be done in what sprint.
Sprint Planning:
Organizing sprints, stage after product backlog and before sprint backlog.

Scrum Master
Scrum Master organizes the meetings, clears obstacles and establishes an environment where the team can be affective.

Development team is cross functional, meaning they know all the processes, say testing and development etc.


