JSX
JSX allows us to write HTML elements in JavaScript and place them in the DOM without any createElement()
and/or appendChild() methods. JSX converts HTML tags into react elements. You are not required to use JSX,
but JSX makes it easier to write React applications.

Virtual vs Real DOM

Real
It is an abstraction of a page's HTML.
It can manipulate on-screen elements.
Any change updates the entire DOM tree.
Updating is slow and inefficient.

Virtual
It is an abstraction of an HTML DOM.
It cannot manipulate on-screen elements.
Any change only updates the relevant node in the tree.
Updating is fast and efficient.

React Features
One-way data flow makes debugging much easier. When the developer knows where the data is coming from and
where it is going, they can dry run (or use tools) to find the problems more efficiently. Having data flow
in one direction makes the program less prone to errors and gives the developer more control.

Virtual DOM

Server-side rendering in React, in a nutshell, is the process by which the server converts web pages into viewable
layouts before transmitting them to the browser. Dynamic components can thus be served as static HTML markup.

Unidirectional or one way binding
Meaning change in view will change the component as well. also change in parent component will reflect in child component
too.

Components
User interfaces to build user applications, helps in reusability of code.

Rendering
Rendering in React refers to the process of generating and updating the user interface (UI) based on the component
hierarchy and data changes. React uses a virtual DOM (Document Object Model) and a reconciliation algorithm to
efficiently update the UI when there are changes in the component's state or props.

States
In React, state is a built-in feature that allows components to store and manage their own data. State represents
the mutable values that can change over time and affect the rendering and behavior of a component. When the state
of a component changes, React automatically re-renders the component to reflect the updated state.

Redux
Used to store state of the application in single entity.

Events
Whenever some action are performed such as mouse hover.

Api
can be called using fetch or axios

Refs
References in react

Router
used to navigate to multiple routes when user hits url

Hooks
Allows you to use features such as useState.

