What is ORM
Object Relational Mapping (ORM) is a functionality which is used to develop and maintain a relationship
between an object and relational database by mapping an object state to database column. It is capable to
handle various database operations easily such as inserting, updating, deleting etc.

Types of Mapping
Following are the various ORM mappings: -

One-to-one - This association is represented by @OneToOne annotation. Here, instance of each entity is related to a
single instance of another entity.

One-to-many - This association is represented by @OneToMany annotation. In this relationship, an instance of one
entity can be related to more than one instance of another entity.

Many-to-one - This mapping is defined by @ManyToOne annotation. In this relationship, multiple instances of an
entity can be related to single instance of another entity.

Many-to-many - This association is represented by @ManyToMany annotation. Here, multiple instances of an entity
can be related to multiple instances of another entity. In this mapping, any side can be the owing side.

The core interfaces of Hibernate framework are:

Configuration
SessionFactory
Session
Query
Criteria
Transaction

There are 3 states of the object (instance) in hibernate.

Transient: The object is in a transient state if it is just created but has no primary key (identifier) and not
associated with a session.
Persistent: The object is in a persistent state if a session is open, and you just saved the instance in the
database or retrieved the instance from the database.
Detached: The object is in a detached state if a session is closed. After detached state, the object comes
to persistent state if you call lock() or update() method.

SessionFactory factory = cfg.buildSessionFactory();
Session session1 = factory.openSession();

Employee e1 = (Employee) session1.get(Employee.class, Integer.valueOf(101));//passing id of employee
session1.close();

Spring Data is a high-level Spring Source project. Its purpose is to unify and easy access to the different
kinds of persistence stores, both relational database systems, and NoSQL data stores.
Spring Data JPA adds a layer on the top of JPA. It means, Spring Data JPA uses all features defined by JPA
specification, especially the entity, association mappings, and JPA's query capabilities. Spring Data JPA adds
its own features such as the no-code implementation of the repository pattern and the creation of database
queries from the method name

There are three main features of Spring Data JPA are as follows:

No-code repository: It is the most popular persistence-related pattern. It enables us to implement
our business code on a higher abstraction level.
Reduced boilerplate code: It provides the default implementation for each method by its repository
interfaces. It means that there is no longer need to implement read and write operations.
Generated Queries: Another feature of Spring Data JPA is the generation of database queries
based on the method name. If the query is not too complex, we need to define a method on our
repository interface with the name that starts with findBy. After defining the method,
Spring parses the method name and creates a query for it. For example:

public interface EmployeeRepository extends CrudRepository<Employee, Long>
{
Employee findByName(String name);
}

JPA allows us to map application classes to table in the database.

Entity Manager: Once we define the mapping, it handles all the interactions with the database.
JPQL (Java Persistence Query Language): It provides a way to write queries to execute searches
against entities. It is different from the SQL queries. JPQL queries already understand the mapping
that is defined between entities. We can add additional conditions if required.
Criteria API: It defines a Java-based API to execute searches against the database.

Data Persistence is a means for an application to persist and retrieve information from a non-volatile
storage system. The Java™ Persistence API (JPA) provides a mechanism for managing persistence and
object-relational mapping and functions since the EJB 3.0 specifications.

JPQL VS SQL
The main difference between SQL and JPQL is that SQL works with relational database tables,
records and fields, whereas JPQL works with Java classes and objects. For example, a
JPQL query can retrieve and return entity objects rather than just field values from
database tables, as with SQL.

SpringBoot JPA repository methods are made up of either entity manager or Typed Queries

What is EntityManager used for?
The EntityManager API is used to create and remove persistent entity instances, to find entities by
their primary key, and to query over entities. The set of entities that can be managed by a
given EntityManager instance is defined by a persistence unit.

Difference between lazy loading and eager loading

suppose there is an object classroom which has list of student object, then in lazy loading on fetching
from database it will only load when we use getter for student but in eager it has already loaded


Mappings in Hibernate
@OneToOne

eg class Student {
Laptop laptop;
}
class Laptop {
int id;
String name;
}

result of above will be

Student class will have laptopId along with other fields and laptop will have it's id and name

@OneToMany and @ManyToOne

@OneToMany

eg class Student {
@OneToMany(mapped by "stud")
List<Laptop> laptops
}

eg class Laptop {
@ManyToOne
Student stud
}

as we can see above now the laptop will have student id as well, had we not written mapped by then there
would have been another table student_laptop

@ManyToMany

eg class Student {
@ManyToMany(mapped by "stud")
List<Laptop> laptops
}

eg class Laptop {
@ManyToMany
List<Student> stud
}

the above will create extra table created by Laptop table and id will be of laptop, had we not
written mapped by in student then student would also have created another table so it is necessary to write
mapped by

Difference between JPA and Spring Boot JPA
JPA (Java Persistence API):

JPA is a Java specification for object-relational mapping (ORM) that defines a set of interfaces and annotations for
persisting Java objects to relational databases.
It provides a standard way to map Java classes to database tables, perform CRUD operations, and manage relationships
between entities.

Spring Boot JPA:

Spring Boot JPA is a specific integration of JPA within the Spring Boot framework, which is a framework that simplifies
the development of Java applications.
Spring Boot provides a set of auto-configuration classes and conventions that make it easier to work with JPA and
streamline the configuration and usage of JPA in Spring applications.
Spring Boot JPA includes features such as automatic configuration of the JPA implementation, simplified setup of the
entity manager, transaction management, and data access operations.
Spring Boot JPA leverages the underlying JPA implementation (such as Hibernate) to provide these features.

DAO

DAO stands for Data Access Object. It is a design pattern commonly used in Java applications to abstract the persistence
layer and provide a way to interact with a data source, such as a database or a web service. The DAO pattern separates
the business logic from the underlying data access code.

Difference between JPA and Hibernate
JPA is specification and hibernate is implementation, Hibernate is Object Relation Mapping framework or tool
that implements and has ways to implement JPA

